Hello my friends.
Are you ready for the most essential step of this implementation which is at the heart of sentiment
analysis that is creating the bag of words model which we are ready to do now because all our reviews
are properly cleaned.
So we're going to get them into the back of words model to create you know this porous matrix which
will contain in the Rose Well the different reviews.
You know the same reviews as the ones in our corpus and in the columns all the different words taken
from all the different reviews you know all of them and each cell will either get a zero or a one it
will get a zero if the word of the column is not in the review of the row and it will get a one if the
word of the column is indeed part of the words in the review of the row.
All right.
So that's where the sparse matrix is about.
And the process of creating all these columns corresponding to each of the words taken from all the
reviews is called tokenization.
So that's exactly what we'll do in this new cell.
But first let me actually show you what we created.
You know I just want to show you the corpus so actually right here we're going to create a new code
cell and I'm just gonna do a print of the corpus so that I can show you indeed what we created.
So let's press play here and this will show the corpus.
All right.
So this is the first review after the cleaning you know after all this cleaning process in different
steps.
Remember I can actually show you the original review here.
The original review was wow with capital letters some punctuation is here with the three little dots
and then left this place.
And after the cleaning process it became while love place.
Indeed we removed all the top words such as you know this.
You know that's an oracle that doesn't give any hint on whether the review is positive or negative.
However of course we kept loved because loved means of course that the review is positive.
However we transformed loved into love.
That's the process of stemming.
So we can simplify all the words by their root and then of course we kept plays because that's of course
not a step forward.
All right then let's have a look at the second one crust is not good.
All right let's try to guess actually how it was transformed so crust was just transform into crust
with a lowercase c then is was probably removed.
Right.
Because it doesn't give a hint on whether the review is positive or negative not was definitely kept
because that's a negative statement and good was of course kept.
OK.
So after the transformation you know after all the cleaning this review must become crust with a lower
case c not good.
Let's check that it is the case and crust.
Oh OK.
So actually they removed the knot which is a bit strange actually because you know not clearly indicates
a negative thing.
You know a negative review.
We clearly have a difference between crust is good and crust is not good.
So I think we need to do some extra work here in order to not include the not word from the top word.
And I'm going to show you how you can do this.
It's very easy.
So we're going to work again on this code.
I'm actually going to take this here you know stop words or the English top words I'm going to cut that
then right here in a new line of code.
I'm going to paste that then I'm going to create actually a new variable which I'm going to call all
underscore stop words right.
And which will be equal to exactly this.
But then what I'm gonna do just below is to take this again which was now created as you know this whole
and symbol of all the stop words.
But we don't want to include not in this top word because that's clearly a negative term indicating
therefore a negative review.
So I'm going to paisa here and I'm just going to add here at that remove and in the parentheses I'm
simply going to include in quotes not all right.
That will not include the not word from the Stop words.
And therefore here instead of taking the set of the original and symbol of stop words.
Well we're now going to take the original and symbol of stop words excluding this time the not word.
Let's see if it works.
I'm kind of improvising things here but it might work.
So we actually have to restart the runtime so let's do this restore runtime.
Yes we still have our data set.
Oh good.
And now let's see if this works so we're going to re execute the cells.
I can not do a run out here because the implementation is not over.
But let us import the libraries first.
Now the data set.
And now let's clean text I hope this will work.
Let's play.
All right.
There seems to be good.
Good.
Now let's remove this output this was the previous output.
Right.
And now let's bring the corpus.
Let's hope that the second review is now no longer you know crust good but indeed crust.
Not good.
Okay so let's press play and perfect.
Okay good.
I'm relieved you know this was really bad to remove the nut because it's clearly a negative term indicating
a negative review.
All right.
So much better now.
And actually you know same for the next one.
Not tasty texture nasty.
That definitely means a negative review.
Let's actually check that right.
Yes.
Not tasty and whatever.
Zero negative review.
And same for this one.
All right.
So good.
We have actually a much better model now.
So we can continue and we can mostly create the back of its model.
All right.
So let's do this.
Let's actually scroll down a bit and there we go.
New coat sale and now let's proceed with this tokenization to create this pass matrix containing all
the reviews in different rows and all the words from all the reviews in the different columns where
the sales will get a one if the word is in the review and a zero otherwise.
All right.
So we're gonna do this with actually psychic learn you know the tokenization process will be done.
Thanks to a class from psychic learn more specifically from a module of psychic learning called feature
extraction and that class is called Count vector riser.
All right so let's do this.
Let's start from psychic learn you know this library very well as K learn from which we're going to
call that feature.
There we go.
Extraction module from which actually you know it's not over.
We're gonna get access to the sub module called text text from which we're going to import that count
vector as a class.
Perfect.
I really love Google collab when it assist me this well.
Okay so we have the class now you know what is the next natural step.
It is to create an instance of this class.
And we're gonna call that CV as count vector riser which will be created as you know an instance of
this count vector race of class.
Perfect which has to take as input only one important parameter can you actually guess what it is.
Well it is actually the maximum size of sparse matrix.
You know the maximum number of columns therefore the maximum number of words you want to include in
the columns of the sparse matrix.
And why is this important that because you know in our corpus of reviews now with all the simplifications.
Well we actually have still some words that are not relevant or you know not helpful to predictive for
reviews positive or negative even if they were not part of the stop words and these include for example
you know texture texture it doesn't really help to predict it for reviews positive or negative or you
know bank or holiday or Rick and even Steve you know Steve doesn't help at all.
So we still have these words which even if they're not part of the stop word don't help at all to predict
if a review is positive or negative and a way to get rid of them is by you know entering this parameter
that we're about to enter the way to get rid of them is just to take actually the most frequent words
you know the words that appear most frequently in the reviews because probably hear Steve on your peers
wants.
So if we only take the most frequent words we won't include Steve in this sparse matrix you know in
the tokenization process.
So so that's the trick.
And so now we need to just choose a maximum size of the sparse matrix.
However we can't really know now how many words there are in total you know before we take the most
frequent ones.
So what we'll do in fact is we will leave this for now you know we won't enter this parameter now we
will run this cell once we create the sparse matrix which is actually going to be the matrix of features
when training are named based model on the training set it's going to be the matrix of features and
therefore we will do a print in order to know the total number of columns and we will get therefore
the total number of words and then we can reduce that total number of words to a lower number of the
most frequent words in the sparse matrix so that we can simplify even more the bag of words model.
Okay.
So that's what we'll do.
Therefore so far let's not enter anything let's just continue to create that bag of words model.
All right.
And actually speaking of the matrix of features that's exactly our next step here.
We are ready.
Thanks to discount vector as a class to create the matrix of features which is indeed that sparse matrix.
So we're gonna call it X as usual as every of our previous matrices of features.
So x equals.
And now according to you what is the next step here.
Well you guess that we're going to create this pass matrix thanks to our CV object.
So there we go I'm calling CV first from which I'm gonna call now a method which you know very well
which we already called many times and that method is the fit transform method.
All right fit transform method which will indeed fit well you know the input of this fit transfer method
which will be you know I'll tell you now the corpus it will fit the corpus to X what does it mean.
It means exactly that it will take all the words from all the reviews in the corpus and then using this
transform part of the method it will put all these words in different columns.
So you see that is very simple.
The fifth method will just take all the words and the transform method will put all these words into
the columns.
That's it.
Nothing more.
Okay.
So of course inside this fit transfer method we have to input our corpus of reviews of very clean reviews
and then we just need to add here to array because actually you know remember that the matrix of features
must be to the array.
It has to be a 2D array because then you know we will train the name based model on the training set
and this expect of course an array as the format of its inputs you know the matrix of features.
So you know X will be an array here.
Then it will be split it into the training center set you know with extra chain y trend access and why
test.
And then there we go.
We'll have the right array reformat to train the knife based model on the training set composed of X
train and Y train so to array.
Let's not forget the parenthesis and now there we go we're almost done.
Our final step here is to create the dependent viable vector Y.
And actually I will let you do this now because you know exactly how to do it right.
We simply need to take that second column here because that's exactly the dependent variable vector
and we don't have anything to do here because it's already ready with the binary outcome 0 or 1 and
so.
Well the way to get this is actually very simple and I'm actually thinking right now of an even simpler
way which is to go to our data processing template than take this line of code because you know I'm
very lazy and so I'm copying this and pasting it right you know doing this and right here and that's
exactly all dependent variable.
Right.
It is just taking the last column of our dataset which is the same as the second column.
You can either put a minus one year or the index one but we want to make this a code template if we
can.
So let's just keep that okay.
Wow so good.
We're done with actually a bag of words model.
So now as we said we're going to run this to figure out the number of columns in the matrix X meaning
the total number of words in that sparse matrix.
So let's play this cell in order to first create X and Y and then we'll do the necessary to indeed get
that total number of columns in X and that's exactly what we're ready to do now you saw that this cell
executed properly and now the trick to get that number of columns and X or you know that number of words
resulting from the tokenization is just to call the len function here which is going to take as input
this matrix of features x and then only the first row.
Right.
Remember that the first index here and the pair of square brackets corresponds to the index of the row.
All right.
So this will give us exactly the number of elements basically in the first row.
Therefore the number of columns of x.
So let's see.
Let's press play and we're going to get now that indeed.
Well OK.
There are 1000 566 words resulting from the tokenization.
Basically we have 1000 566 words that were taken from all the reviews and for each of the reviews we
have either one in the columns corresponding to the words that are in the review and zero to all the
other columns corresponding to the words that are not in the review.
All right.
So basically we have one thousand five hundred and sixty six words and we can simplify this even more
by for example taking the 1500 most frequent words so that we can you know get rid of words such as
Rick Steve and maybe you know holiday or or let's say you know for I don't know what that means rubber.
You know this probably appears only once and you know words like that words that don't help at all predict
if the review is positive or negative.
OK.
So that's the idea.
So let's just take you know the one thousand five hundred most frequent words and therefore to do this
we just need to enter Max on this core features parameters.
There we go.
And in order to get only the 1500 most frequent words we just need to enter here.
One thousand five hundred and feel free to try with other values like for example the 1000 most frequent
words.
But be careful not to remove too many words.
Okay.
All right.
So good.
Therefore now we're gonna you know rerun that sale.
So let's do this.
Let's press play.
Okay.
Good.
And now if we rerun that sale we should get 1500 here.
Perfect.
So now we have a nice bag of words model with only relevant words.
You know that appear at least a certain amount of times.
And without all the non relevant words that appear once like Rick Steve or that weird four word we saw
in one of the reviews.
Okay good.
And so now.
Well we basically did the most difficult part.
We created the bag of words model.
And so now I actually have an exercise for you which you're going to do by yourself first before we
do it together.
It is of course to do all the rest of the different steps here.
And you know how to do them because you basically have everything you have a matrix of features an independent
viable vector Y which you can therefore split into a training set and to set you know composed respectively
of X train in y train and X and Y test then you're going to use the training set composed of extraneous
y train to train the Navy base model on the train set then you're going to predict the test results
using the test set containing therefore reviews and their outcomes on which the model wasn't trained.
And finally you're gonna make the confusion matrix and compute the accuracy of course you're gonna do
this using your machine learning tool kit containing all the code templates we've built so far.
So you totally have the right to do that and I actually hope that you're going to do this because I
want you to be as most efficient as possible and therefore that's exactly what we will do in the next
and final tutorial of this section.
I will show you how to juggle with our diverse toolkit and especially the classification tool kit to
in a flashlight split the data set into the training set and test it then trained the native based model
on the train set than predictive test results and making the confusion matrix.
I will show you that I will do this with only copy paste nothing else we won't type any code.
Now we have everything in our diverse toolkit.
But please make it first please do it on your own first.
And we will implement the solution together in the next tutorial.
Until then enjoy machine learning.